developer-guide.md, before:

# Developer Guide

Welcome to the KPow project! This document provides pointers for navigating and contributing to the codebase.

## Project Layout

- **cmd/** – Command line interface built with Cobra. The `start` command lives here.
- **config/** – Configuration structs and helpers. `GetConfig` merges config files, environment variables and CLI flags.
- **server/** – Core application code. Contains HTTP server setup, form handling, encryption helpers, mailers and cron jobs.
- **styles/** – Tailwind CSS sources. `just styles` compiles them into the assets under `server/public/`.
- **art/** – Images used in documentation or the web interface.

## Getting Started

1. **Install Go** – The project uses Go modules. Ensure you have Go 1.21+ installed.
2. **Install Bun (optional)** – Needed to rebuild styles with `just styles`.
3. **Run the server**
   ```sh
   go run main.go start
   ```
   CLI flags override environment variables and configuration files (see `readme.md`).

## Configuration

Settings can be supplied via a TOML file, environment variables, or CLI flags. See `config/config.go` for all available options. The example `config.toml` and `example.env` provide useful defaults.

Key configuration topics:

- **Server** – Port, host, logging and request limits.
- **Mailers** – SMTP or webhook destinations. Failed messages are stored in an inbox folder.
- **Encryption** – Supports `age`, `pgp`, or `rsa` public keys. Keys are loaded on start and used to encrypt form submissions.
- **Scheduler** – A cron job retries sending failed messages from the inbox.

To specify the encryption key via a config file, include a `[key]` section:

```toml
[key]
kind = "age"           # or "pgp" or "rsa"
path = "/etc/kpow/key.pub"
advertise = false
```

### Configuration flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Start] --> B{Config File Provided?}
    B -- Yes --> C[Load Config File]
    B -- No --> D[Use Config Defaults]
    C --> E[Load Environment Variables]
    C --> D
    D --> E
    E --> F[Apply CLI Arguments]
```

## Development Tips

- **Templates** live in `server/templates/` and define the HTML form and error pages. Update these to customize the UI.
- **Middleware** is configured in `server/server.go` – CSRF protection, rate limiting and body limits can be adjusted there.
- **Cron jobs** are located under `server/cron/`. The inbox cleaner periodically attempts to resend failed messages.
- **Encryption utilities** reside in `server/enc/`. Use the tests here as references for encrypting data.

### Generating Keys

Use the following commands to create test keys for development:

#### Age

```sh
age-keygen -o age.key
grep "^# public key:" age.key | cut -d' ' -f3 > age.pub
```

#### PGP

```sh
gpg --quick-generate-key "Your Name <you@example.com>"
gpg --armor --export you@example.com > pgp.pub
```

#### RSA

```sh
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out rsa_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in rsa_private.pem -out rsa_public.pem
```

The `rsa_public.pem` file must contain a PKIX PEM‑encoded key.

### Mailer retry flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[New Message Submitted] --> B{Try to Send Immediately?}
    B -- Success --> C[Message Sent]
    B -- Error --> D[Save to Inbox Folder]
    D --> E[Scheduler Run]
    E --> F[Read Messages in Batches]
    F --> G{Try to Re-Send}
    G -- Success --> H[Message Sent]
    G -- Error --> E
```


## Running Tests

The repository contains unit tests in the `server/enc` package and for CLI configuration overrides. Run them with:

```sh
go test ./...
```

(Tests may require network access to download toolchains.)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository and create a feature branch.
2. Follow standard Go formatting (`gofmt`).
3. Add tests for new functionality when possible.
4. When adding a new feature or fixing a bug, tests are required.
5. Submit a pull request describing your changes.

For a deeper explanation of how the form, encryption and retry logic work, see `readme.md` and the source comments throughout the `server` package.

Commit message:

use fmt println for verify output

developer-guide.md, after:

# Developer Guide

Welcome to the KPow project! This document provides pointers for navigating and contributing to the codebase.

## Project Layout

- **cmd/** – Command line interface built with Cobra. The `start` command lives here.
- **config/** – Configuration structs and helpers. `GetConfig` merges config files, environment variables and CLI flags.
- **server/** – Core application code. Contains HTTP server setup, form handling, encryption helpers, mailers and cron jobs.
- **styles/** – Tailwind CSS sources. `just styles` compiles them into the assets under `server/public/`.
- **art/** – Images used in documentation or the web interface.

## Getting Started

1. **Install Go** – The project uses Go modules. Ensure you have Go 1.21+ installed.
2. **Install Bun (optional)** – Needed to rebuild styles with `just styles`.
3. **Run the server**
   ```sh
   go run main.go start
   ```
   CLI flags override environment variables and configuration files (see `readme.md`).

## Configuration

Settings can be supplied via a TOML file, environment variables, or CLI flags. See `config/config.go` for all available options. The example `config.toml` and `example.env` provide useful defaults.

Key configuration topics:

- **Server** – Port, host, logging and request limits.
- **Mailers** – SMTP or webhook destinations. Failed messages are stored in an inbox folder.
- **Encryption** – Supports `age`, `pgp`, or `rsa` public keys. Keys are loaded on start and used to encrypt form submissions.
- **Scheduler** – A cron job retries sending failed messages from the inbox.

To specify the encryption key via a config file, include a `[key]` section:

```toml
[key]
kind = "age"           # or "pgp" or "rsa"
path = "/etc/kpow/key.pub"
advertise = false
```

### Configuration flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Start] --> B{Config File Provided?}
    B -- Yes --> C[Load Config File]
    B -- No --> D[Use Config Defaults]
    C --> E[Load Environment Variables]
    C --> D
    D --> E
    E --> F[Apply CLI Arguments]
```

### Verify your configuration

You can check a configuration file for errors without starting the
server:

```sh
go run main.go verify --config=config.toml
```

## Development Tips

- **Templates** live in `server/templates/` and define the HTML form and error pages. Update these to customize the UI.
- **Middleware** is configured in `server/server.go` – CSRF protection, rate limiting and body limits can be adjusted there.
- **Cron jobs** are located under `server/cron/`. The inbox cleaner periodically attempts to resend failed messages.
- **Encryption utilities** reside in `server/enc/`. Use the tests here as references for encrypting data.

### Generating Keys

Use the following commands to create test keys for development:

#### Age

```sh
age-keygen -o age.key
grep "^# public key:" age.key | cut -d' ' -f3 > age.pub
```

#### PGP

```sh
gpg --quick-generate-key "Your Name <you@example.com>"
gpg --armor --export you@example.com > pgp.pub
```

#### RSA

```sh
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out rsa_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in rsa_private.pem -out rsa_public.pem
```

The `rsa_public.pem` file must contain a PKIX PEM‑encoded key.

### Mailer retry flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[New Message Submitted] --> B{Try to Send Immediately?}
    B -- Success --> C[Message Sent]
    B -- Error --> D[Save to Inbox Folder]
    D --> E[Scheduler Run]
    E --> F[Read Messages in Batches]
    F --> G{Try to Re-Send}
    G -- Success --> H[Message Sent]
    G -- Error --> E
```


## Running Tests

The repository contains unit tests in the `server/enc` package and for CLI configuration overrides. Run them with:

```sh
go test ./...
```

(Tests may require network access to download toolchains.)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository and create a feature branch.
2. Follow standard Go formatting (`gofmt`).
3. Add tests for new functionality when possible.
4. When adding a new feature or fixing a bug, tests are required.
5. Submit a pull request describing your changes.

For a deeper explanation of how the form, encryption and retry logic work, see `readme.md` and the source comments throughout the `server` package.
